# LuckyNumber7-Project1

## Our Questions:
Our Group asked the following questions:
Is there a meaningful relationship between key:
1.	Commodity and Stock Market Indicators
2.	Currency and Stock Market Indicators
3.	Commodity and Currency Market Indicators

## Why did we ask these Questions?
In the news / media, we often hear “experts” talking about these relationships. We wanted to verify for ourselves, using actual data, and the tools we have learnt in this class, whether these relationships do exist?

## Guideline we used for determining a meaningful R-Squared:
We used the guidelines published on the following website:
https://condor.depaul.edu/sjost/it223/documents/correlation.htm
Economics is a social science and based on the guidelines on this website, an R-Squared of > 0.35 is considered meaningful.  
We ran Linear Regressions in our Analysis and used the R-Squared of 0.35 as the cut-off for a meaningful R-Squared.

## Were we able to answer our Questions?
Yes, we believe we were able to answer our questions.
We reviewed the past 10 years of data for the following:

### 1. Commodity Market and Stock Market Indicators:
A)	Brent Crude vs Dow Jones Industrial Average:
When we look at the entire period (2010-2020) as a whole, the R-Squared was not meaningful.
When we look at each year individually, the R-Squared was meaningful for the following years:
2010, 2014, 2016, 2017, 2020
B)	Gold vs Dow Jones Industrial Average:
When we look at the entire period (2010-2020) as a whole, the R-Squared was not meaningful.
When we look at each year individually, the R-Squared was meaningful for the following years:
2013, 2019, 2020

### 2. Currency Market and Stock Market Indicators:
Chinese Yuan / US Dollar Exchange Rate vs Dow Jones Industrial Average:
When we look at the entire period (2010-2020) as a whole, the R-Squared was not meaningful.
When we look at each year individually, the R-Squared was meaningful for the following years:
2010, 2013, 2016, 2017

### 3. Currency Market and Commodity Market Indicators:
Chinese Yuan / US Dollar Exchange Rate vs Gold:
When we look at the entire period (2010-2020) as a whole, the R-Squared was not meaningful.
When we look at each year individually, the R-Squared was meaningful for the following years:
2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2015, 2017, 2018, 2019

## This repository contains the following files/folders:

### 00_Extraction_with_API
This jupyter notebook is the file we used for Data Extraction. We used it to scrape the data via an API. We pulled in all the necessary data and put it into a data frame, which was then exported to excel, to pass it to the Data Exploration and Cleanup effort.


### 01_Exploration_and_Cleanup
This jupyter notebook is the file we used for data exploration and cleanup.
We loaded the data exported from the 00_Extraction_with_API jupyter notebook file. We examined the data and then we “cleaned” the data. For example, we had "." instead of Null in many cells. These issues, as well as null values were removed from the dataframe. We also made sure that the dataframe structure was consistent and that the columns were in the right format, for us to do some math on it. We then created percentage changes in order to normalize the data. Finally, we exported the data to excel to pass it to the Analysis effort


### 02_Analysis
This jupyter notebook file was created to analyze the data, and generate scatter plots with their regression equation lines and R-Squareds. We loaded the data exported by the 01_Exploration_and_Cleanup jupyter notebook file. We created a function that we could use, whereby we pass the necessary inputs  to do a traditional x y linear regression. We also wanted to go down the rabbit hole of non-linear regressions. So, we ran a 6th order polynomial regression for 2 of the relationships. We exported images of all the scatter plots. 

### Project_01_Group_07_TUES_THURS
This is a detailed PowerPoint presentation file that walks through our questions, our approach, our analysis and our findings. 

### Output
This is a folder that contains the excel files generated from the 00_Extraction_with_API and the 01_Exploration_and_Cleanup jupyter notebook files. This folder also contains the scatter plots that were generated by the regressions we ran using the 02_Analysis jupyter notebook file.
There are 50 images in total:
### 48 Linear Regression Scatter Plots.
#### Brent Crude vs Dow Jones Industrial Average:
1 for the entire time period (2010-2020).
11 for each individual year from 2010 to 2020.
#### Gold vs Dow Jones Industrial Average:
1 for the entire time period (2010-2020).
11 for each individual year from 2010 to 2020.
#### Chinese Yuan / US Dollar vs Dow Jones Industrial Average:
1 for the entire time period (2010-2020).
11 for each individual year from 2010 to 2020.
#### Chinese Yuan / US Dollar vs Gold:
1 for the entire time period (2010-2020).
11 for each individual year from 2010 to 2020.
### 2 6th order Polynomial Regression Scatter Plots.
1 for Brent Crude vs Dow Jones Industrial Average (for a subset of the data).
1 for Gold vs Dow Jones Industrial Average (for a subset of the data).
